Fix #762 by merging 1200⌶ info into ⎕DT (#910)
Dyalog/documentation: language-reference-guide/docs/system-functions/dt.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Time stamps { #timestamps }
| Group                  | Code  | Description                                  | Max elements | Element contents[^11]                                        | Elided element implicit values (in Y)[^13] |
```

search:
  boost: 2
---

# <span>Date-time</span> `R←X ⎕DT Y`{{key}}

This function validates date-times, converts date-times between one representation and another, and converts date-times to and from text.

> A date-time is a date and time of day represented by a *timestamp*, a *time number*, a *military time-zone character* or a *text-formatted datetime*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A date-time is a date and time of day represented by a *timestamp*, a *time number*, a *military time-zone character*, or a *text-formatted datetime*.
```

- A *timestamp* is a date-time expressed as a multiple element numeric vector, of which there are several different sorts (principally `⎕TS` format).
- A *time number* is a date-time expressed as a scalar numeric value, of which there are several different sorts.
- A *military time zone character* is a scalar character that represents the current date-time ("now") in a particular time zone. For example, `'A'` represents the current date-time (UTC) + 1 hour.
- A *text-formatted datetime* is a date-time expressed as a character vector, formatted according to a *pattern* (see [Formatting patterns](#formatting-patterns) below).

> `Y` is an array of any shape whose elements contain a timestamp, time number, military time zone character or text-formatted datetime, in any combination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Y` is an array of any shape whose elements contain a timestamp, time number, military time zone character, or text-formatted datetime, in any combination.
```

> `X` describes the representation to which the elements of `Y` are to be converted (the output format) and, optionally, the representation of the elements of `Y` (the input format). For convenience these are referred to below as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code>, respectively.

Reviewer 2: I can see why you went for the <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> format - it does seem to simplify things. And yet, I found myself constantly decoding what they were. Might be worth asking around for others' thoughts on this.

Author: Do you like <code>X<sub>out</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>in</sub></code> better?

Reviewer 2: <code>X<sub>out</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>in</sub></code> sound like they should flow more easily - but I'd still recommend gathering opinion from others before going to the trouble of changing them all.

(When reviewing, I had considered suggesging <code>X<sub>dst</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>src</sub></code>, which are very similar, but concluded that <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> _were_ as descriptive - _and yet_ something about those grates with me; I can't really put my finger on it, though)

Reviewer: Let's stick with them as-is for now – it can be changed later if we don't like the finished product!

> `X` describes the representation to which the elements of `Y` are to be converted (the output format) and, optionally, the representation of the elements of `Y` (the input format). For convenience these are referred to below as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code>, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`X` describes the representation to which the elements of `Y` are to be converted (the output format) and, optionally, the representation of the elements of `Y` (the input format). For convenience these are referred to below as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> respectively.
```

`X` can be a single element (<code>X<sub>R</sub></code>) or a 2-element vector (<code>X<sub>Y</sub> X<sub>R</sub></code>). Each of <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> can be:

> - an integer *date-time code* (see the tables below), or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an integer *date-time code* (see [](#timenumbers))
```

> - a character vector containing a *pattern* that describes how a datetime is formatted as text (see [Formatting patterns](#formatting-patterns) below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a character vector containing a *pattern* that describes how a datetime is formatted as text (see [Formatting patterns](#formatting-patterns).
```

> When <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> is an integer it must be either `0` or a date-time code listed in the tables below. `0` specifies that the elements of `Y` are to be validated; a non-zero value specifies the date-time representation to which the elements of `Y` are to be converted. When <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> is a pattern, the elements of `R` are character vectors, each derived by formatting the corresponding element of `Y` as text according to the pattern.

Reviewer: change "table blow" to the appropriate cross-reference

> <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> can be omitted only when the elements of `Y` are Dyalog Date Numbers, `⎕TS`-style timestamps or military time zone characters. When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is omitted, the numeric elements of `Y` are interpreted as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> can be omitted only when the elements of `Y` are Dyalog Date Numbers, `⎕TS`-style timestamps, or military time zone characters. When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is omitted, the numeric elements of `Y` are interpreted as follows:
```

- scalars are assumed to be time numbers of type Dyalog Date Number (code `1`)
- vectors are assumed to be `⎕TS` timestamps (code `¯1`)

> When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is an integer date-time code it explicitly specifies the date-time representation of the numeric elements of `Y`. When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is a pattern, the corresponding character vectors in `Y` are matched against the pattern and the resulting date-times are returned in the representation given by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (see [Pattern matching rules](#pattern-matching-rules) below). A pattern <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> cannot be omitted, even when the elements of `Y` are character vectors that could unambiguously be assumed to be text-formatted datetimes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is an integer date-time code it explicitly specifies the date-time representation of the numeric elements of `Y`. When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is a pattern, the corresponding character vectors in `Y` are matched against the pattern and the resulting date-times are returned in the representation given by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (see [Pattern matching rules](#pattern-matching-rules)). A pattern <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> cannot be omitted, even when the elements of `Y` are character vectors that could unambiguously be assumed to be text-formatted datetimes.
```

> Text-formatted datetimes and patterns are character vectors; no scalar extension occurs when character scalars appear in `X` or `Y`. A single text-formatted datetime in `Y` must be enclosed (nested); an unenclosed character vector in `Y` is interpreted as a vector of military time zone characters. As a convenience, a simple (un-nested) character vector `X` is implicitly enclosed and processed as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code>, so a pattern can be supplied on its own to format datetimes as text.

Reviewer 2: "un-nested" -> "non-nested" (if, for no other reason, because the former sounds "verby")

Author: "not nested"

> Text-formatted datetimes and patterns are character vectors; no scalar extension occurs when character scalars appear in `X` or `Y`. A single text-formatted datetime in `Y` must be enclosed (nested); an unenclosed character vector in `Y` is interpreted as a vector of military time zone characters. As a convenience, a simple (not nested) character vector `X` is implicitly enclosed and processed as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code>, so a pattern can be supplied on its own to format datetimes as text.

Reviewer: "xxx, so a pattern". Tad ambiguous...repalce "so" with "therefore," "meaning that" or something else that clarifies.

Character scalars in `Y` are always interpreted as meaning "now".

> `R` is an array of the same shape as `Y`, where each element is a timestamp, time number, character vector or Boolean value as determined by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (the second or only element of `X`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`R` is an array of the same shape as `Y`, where each element is a timestamp, time number, character vector or Boolean value, as determined by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (the second or only element of `X`).
```

> Time numbers in `R` can be of type DECF even if `⎕FR` is `645` if their magnitude can be too great to store precisely in a double. See the table below for the type numbers where this is so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time numbers in `R` can be of type DECF even when `⎕FR` is `645` if their magnitude could be too great to store precisely in a double. See the table below for the type numbers where this is so.
```

> Time numbers in `R` can be of type DECF even if `⎕FR` is `645` if their magnitude can be too great to store precisely in a double. See the table below for the type numbers where this is so.

Reviewer: Change "the table below" into the appropriate cross-reference

## Time Numbers

If a value in `X` is positive it indicates that a time number type is expected in `Y` or generated in `R`, as follows. Note that the last column indicated whether (Yes) or not (No) negative numbers are allowed.

> |Group|Code|Description|Category|Date and time[^1] represented by 0 (Epoch)|Negative values allowed?[^8]|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Time numbers { #timenumbers }
|Group|Code|Description|Category|Date and time[^1] represented by 0 (Epoch)|Negative values allowed?[^8]|
```

search:
  boost: 2
---

# <span>Date-time</span> `R←X ⎕DT Y`{{key}}

This function validates date-times, converts date-times between one representation and another, and converts date-times to and from text.

> A date-time is a date and time of day represented by a *timestamp*, a *time number*, a *military time-zone character*, or a *text-formatted datetime*.

Reviewer: Might be nice if this list, the subsequent bulleted list, the paragraph following the bulleted list, and the three subsequent sub-sections all had the same order (currently timestamp and time number are not in the same order in all four places).

The italicised text in the first three bullets should link to the following sub-sections relating to each of them.

> - A *timestamp* is a date-time expressed as a multiple element numeric vector, of which there are several different sorts (principally `⎕TS` format).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A *timestamp* is a date-time expressed as a multiple element numeric vector, of which there are several different sorts (principally [`⎕TS`](ts.md) format).
```

- A *time number* is a date-time expressed as a scalar numeric value, of which there are several different sorts.
- A *military time zone character* is a scalar character that represents the current date-time ("now") in a particular time zone. For example, `'A'` represents the current date-time (UTC) + 1 hour.
- A *text-formatted datetime* is a date-time expressed as a character vector, formatted according to a [formatting *pattern*](#formatting-patterns).

`Y` is an array of any shape whose elements contain a timestamp, time number, military time zone character, or text-formatted datetime, in any combination.

> `X` describes the representation to which the elements of `Y` are to be converted (the output format) and, optionally, the representation of the elements of `Y` (the input format). For convenience these are referred to below as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`X` describes the representation to which the elements of `Y` are to be converted (the output format) and, optionally, the representation of the elements of `Y` (the input format). These are referred to below as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> respectively.
```

`X` can be a single element (<code>X<sub>R</sub></code>) or a 2-element vector (<code>X<sub>Y</sub> X<sub>R</sub></code>). Each of <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> can be:

- an integer *date-time code* (see [](#timenumbers))

> - a character vector containing a *pattern* that describes how a datetime is formatted as text (see [Formatting patterns](#formatting-patterns).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a character vector containing a *pattern* that describes how a datetime is formatted as text (see [Formatting Patterns](#formatting-patterns)).
```

Text-formatted datetimes and patterns are character vectors; no scalar extension occurs when character scalars appear in `X` or `Y`. A single text-formatted datetime in `Y` must be enclosed (nested); an unenclosed character vector in `Y` is interpreted as a vector of military time zone characters. As a convenience, a simple (not nested) character vector `X` is implicitly enclosed and processed as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> meaning that a single pattern can be supplied on its own to format datetimes as text.

Character scalars in `Y` are always interpreted as meaning "now".

`R` is an array of the same shape as `Y`, where each element is a timestamp, time number, character vector or Boolean value, as determined by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (the second or only element of `X`).

> Time numbers in `R` can be of type DECF even when `⎕FR` is `645` if their magnitude could be too great to store precisely in a double. See [](#timenumbers) for the type numbers where this is so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time numbers in `R` can be of type DECF even when [`⎕FR`](fr.md) is `645` if their magnitude could be too great to store precisely in a double. See [](#timenumbers) for the type numbers where this is so.
```

|Julian Date and variants| `50` |Julian Date|Day count with fractional part|¯4717-11-24 12:00|No|
|                        | `51` |J (J dayno)|Day count with fractional part|1800-01-01 00:00|No|
|                        | `52` |Reduced Julian Date|Day count with fractional part|1858-11-16 12:00|Yes|
|                        | `53` |Modified Julian Date|Day count with fractional part|1858-11-17 00:00|Yes|
|                        | `54` |Dublin Julian Date|Day count with fractional part|1899-12-31 12:00|Yes|
|                        | `55` |CNES Julian Date|Day count with fractional part|1950-01-01 00:00|Yes|
|_                      _| `56` |CCSDS Julian Date|Day count with fractional part|1958-01-01 00:00|Yes|
|Decimal encoded[^9]     | `60` |Floating-point decimal encoded format Digits take the form yyyymmdd.hhmmss|Encoded broken-down time 1s resolution|N/A|No|
|_                      _| `61` |Integer decimal encoded format Digits take the form yyyymmddhhmmss(J digit time)|Encoded broken-down time 1s resolution|N/A|No|
|Misc. Operating Systems | `70` |AmigaOS|Tick count 1ms ticks[^3]|1978-01-01 00:00|No|

> ## Time Stamps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Timestamps
```

If a value in `X` is negative it indicates that a timestamp type is expected in `Y` or generated in `R`, as follows:

> Table: Time stamps { #timestamps }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Timestamps { #timestamps }
```

|_                      _| `¯3`  | Nanosecond precision (J expanded digit time) | 7            | Year, month, day-of-month, hour, minute, second, nanosecond  | `1 1 1 0 0 0 0`                            |
| ISO components         | `¯10` | ISO day-of-year components                   | 6            | Year, day-of-year, hour, minute, second, microsecond         | `1 1 0 0 0 0`                            |
|_                      _| `¯11` | ISO day-of-week components                   | 7            | Year, week, day-of-week, hour, minute, second, microsecond   | `1 1 1 0 0 0 0`                              |
| Decimal encoded[^2]    | `¯20` | Decimal encoded date and time                | 2            | Decimal encoded date, decimal encoded time                   | `10101 0`                              |
| DateTimePicker         | `¯30` | DateTime format                              | 4            | International Day Number, hour, minute, second               | `0 0 0 0`                              |

> ## Military time zone characters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Military Time Zone Characters
```

> Any element in `Y` can be specified as a military time zone character and is implicitly replaced by the current time in the time zone they represent. The time zones are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any element in `Y` can be specified as a military time zone character and is implicitly replaced by the current time in the time zone they represent. The time zones and their characters are detailed in [](#timezones).
```

> |Character|Time zone name|Time zone |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Military time zones { #timezones }

|Character|Time zone name|Time zone |
```

The resolutions of system clocks vary by platform.

> ## Formatting patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Formatting Patterns
```

Either or both of <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> can be a character vector containing a *pattern* which describes how a datetime is, or is to be, formatted as text.

> When used as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code>, the pattern controls how each element of `Y` is formatted into a character vector in `R`. When used as <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code>, the same pattern describes the text supplied in `Y` and controls how it is matched and decoded into the representation given by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (see [Pattern matching rules](#pattern-matching-rules) below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code>, the pattern controls how each element of `Y` is formatted into a character vector in `R`. When used as <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code>, the same pattern describes the text supplied in `Y` and controls how it is matched and decoded into the representation given by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (see [Pattern matching rules](#pattern-matching-rules)).
```

> The formatting pattern allows a datetime to be converted to a highly user-configurable, plain text format. When a datetime is formatted, elements in the result are copies of the format pattern with format sequences replaced by the elements they represent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The formatting pattern allows a datetime to be converted to a user-configurable plain-text format. When a datetime is formatted, elements in the result are copies of the format pattern with format sequences replaced by the elements they represent.
```

> The format sequences are intended to be visually reminiscent of the generated text. They use alphabetic characters easily associated with the substitution (for example `D`, `M` and `Y` for Day, Month and Year respectively) repeated one or more times to indicate format. Some sequences allow the first character to be replaced by a `_`, or the casing to be altered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The format sequences are intended to be visually reminiscent of the generated text. They use alphabetic characters easily associated with the substitution (for example `D`, `M`, and `Y` for Day, Month, and Year respectively) repeated one or more times to indicate format. Some sequences allow the first character to be replaced by a `_`, or the casing to be altered.
```

|_   _| `ffffff` | 6 digit precision | `ffffff` | `555555` |
| <u>d</u>ay of week | `d` | Numeric (1-7) | `d` | `1` |
| | `ddd` | Abbreviated name | `DDD`<br>`Ddd`<br>`ddd`<br>`_dd`[^14] | `MON`<br>`Mon`<br>`mon`<br>`Mon` |
|_   _| `dddd` | Full name | `DDDD`<br>`Dddd`<br>`dddd`<br>`_ddd`[^14] | `MONDAY`<br>`Monday`<br>`monday`<br>`Monday` |
| ISO <u>w</u>eek number | `w` | 1 or 2 digit numeric | `w` | `10` |
|_   _| `ww` | 2 character numeric | `ww`<br>`_w` | `10`<br>`10` |
| year of ISO <u>W</u>eek number[^15] | `WW` | Without century | `WW` | `19` |
|_   _| `WWWW` | With century | `WWWW` | `2019` |
| day of <u>y</u>ear | `y` | 1 to 3 digit numeric | `y` | `63` |
|_   _| `yy` | 3 character numeric | `yy`<br>`_y` | `063`<br>` 63` |
| <u>O</u>rdinal indicator[^16] for day of month | `O` | Short | `O`<br>`o` | `T`<br>`t` |
|_   _| `OO` | Full | `OO`<br>`Oo`<br>`oo` | `TH`<br>`Th`<br>`th` |
| hours in <u>t</u>welve hour clock | `t` | 1 or 2 digit numeric | `t` | `8` |
|_   _| `tt` | 2 character numeric | `tt`<br>`_t` | `08`<br>` 8` |
| AM/<u>P</u>M Indicator | `P` | Short | `P`<br>`p` | `A`<br>`a` |
|_   _| `PP` | Full | `PP`<br>`pp` | `AM`<br>`am` |

> The upper and lower case letters, underscore `_`, dollar `$` and percent `%` are all reserved for introducing format sequences, even though not all currently have meaning. The remaining, non-reserved, characters are copied to the result unchanged, thus the format string `hh:mm` represents the hour of the day and minute of the hour with a colon between (for example `12:00`). All characters or sequences of characters can be delimited by `"` or `'` at any point in the format string to prevent them being interpreted as a part of a format sequence, and, within these delimiters, two adjacent delimiter characters produce a single delimiter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upper and lower case letters, underscore `_`, dollar `$`, and percent `%` are all reserved for introducing format sequences, even though not all currently have meaning. The remaining, non-reserved, characters are copied to the result unchanged; this means that the format string `hh:mm` represents the hour of the day and minute of the hour, separated by a colon (for example `12:00`). All characters or sequences of characters can be delimited by `"` or `'` at any point in the format string to prevent them from being interpreted as a part of a format sequence, and, within these delimiters, two adjacent delimiter characters produce a single delimiter.
```

> Note: The characters `AaaaBbbb` consist of two adjacent format sequences because there is a sequence of As followed by a sequence of Bs. The characters `AaaaAaaa` consist of one format sequence because it only contains `A`s. It can be separated into two format sequences by inserting an empty `"` or `'` - delimited string, for example `Aaaa""Aaaa`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! Info "Information"
    The characters `AaaaBbbb` consist of two adjacent format sequences because there is a sequence of As followed by a sequence of Bs. The characters `AaaaAaaa` consist of one format sequence because it only contains `A`s. It can be separated into two format sequences by inserting an empty `"` or `'` - delimited string, for example, `Aaaa""Aaaa`.
```

## Language

> Unless overridden, English is used for text substitutions. Different languages can be selected using the [Language variant option](#language-variant-option) and/or the use of language specifiers within the format pattern. In either case, the language is specified as either a two letter [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1) language code in lower case (for example `en`) or as a five character language with an additional underscore and two character region in upper case (for example `en_GB`). Within the format pattern, `__xx__` (where `xx` is the two or five character specifier) will switch the language of the subsequent generated or matched text. Dictionaries for the following languages are built in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless overridden, English is used for text substitutions. Different languages can be selected using the [**Language** variant option](#language-variant-option) and/or the use of language specifiers within the format pattern. In either case, the language is specified as either a two letter [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1) language code in lower case (for example, `en`) or as a five character language with an additional underscore and two character region in upper case (for example, `en_GB`). Within the format pattern, `__xx__` (where `xx` is the two or five character specifier) will switch the language of the subsequent generated or matched text. { #languages } shows the languages that are built into the interpreter.
```

> | ISO 639-1 | Language |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Built-in languages { #languages }
| ISO 639-1 | Language |
```

| --- | ---  |
| da | Danish |
| de | German |
| el | Greek |
| en | English |
| es | Spanish |
| fi | Finnish |
| fr | French |
| it | Italian |
| ja | Japanese |
| nb | Norwegian Bokmål |
| nl | Dutch |
| nn | Norwegian Nynorsk |
| pl | Polish |
| pt | Portuguese |
| ru | Russian |
| sv | Swedish |
| zh | Chinese |

> ## Predefined patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Predefined Patterns
```

Any pattern can contain (in part or in whole) a named predefined pattern, which allows common date and time formats to be specified in abbreviated form. Predefined patterns can be specified on a per-language basis, allowing patterns to be tailored for the selected language.

Predefined patterns are included in a pattern using `%` delimiters. For example, `%ISO%` includes the named predefined pattern `ISO`.

The following global predefined pattern is built in:

| Name | Substitutes as |
| ---  | ---            |
| `ISO`  | `YYYY-MM-DD"T"hh:mm:ss` |

This list can be expanded in future.

Additional predefined patterns can be defined using the [Dictionary variant option](#dictionary-variant-option). Predefined patterns must not contain references to other predefined patterns.

> ## Pattern matching rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pattern-matching Rules
```

When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is a pattern, the corresponding character vectors in `Y` are matched against it and decoded into date-times. The following additional rules apply to the matching.

> ### Two digit years

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Two-digit Years
```

> When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is a pattern, the corresponding character vectors in `Y` are matched against it and decoded into date-times. The behaviour when parsing datetimes is always well-defined and predictable, but it is beholden upon the user to create sane formatting patterns: there are some patterns which will match some texts and not others, and superficial testing does not always reveal this to be the case. The following additional rules apply to the matching.

Reviewer 2: Please don't use "beholden" -  not all readers will be familiar with that.

I don't think you phrased "there are some patterns which will math some texts and not others" as intended. That is true of _all_ patterns: "YYYY" matches "2026" and not "hatstand", for example.

I know we discussed long and hard the behaviour here, but this whole sentence feels like we are making excuses - don't fix the above; it is not necessary so just remove it. You cover this again in the paragraph before the subtitle "consistency" anyway.

Author: Removed "The behaviour (…) the case".

Two digit years (i.e. those corresponding to the formatting pattern elements `YY` and `WW`) are by default interpreted according to the same rules used for `⎕SM` and GUI edit fields, which are configurable using the `YY_WINDOW` configuration parameter and described with [its documentation](../../windows-installation-and-configuration-guide/configuration-parameters/yy-window/).

> ### Ambiguities and precision

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ambiguities and Precision
```

> Formatting *to* a text-formatted datetime can be lossy — that is, the formatted text does not necessarily contain sufficient information to regenerate the original datetime. A pattern used to convert *from* a text-formatted datetime is not permitted to be ambiguous such that it would be possible to deduce multiple disjoint datetimes from text generated by it (for example, a pattern which contains a year and a day-of-month but no month, because there would be twelve disjoint dates for which the pattern would generate identical text). Such a pattern is rejected.

Reviewer 2: "would" -> "could". The assertion that there are 12 is true only when day of month is 28 or less.

The formatted text is parsed and used to compute a datetime according to the given pattern, and must precisely match the text that would be produced if the resulting datetime were formatted using that same pattern. That is:

- The formatted text must contain valid substitution text where a format sequence appears in the pattern — for example, a full month name where `Mmmm` appears in the pattern.
- All other characters, including spaces and literal characters, must exactly match the pattern.
- All characters must be in the correct case.
- The elements in the formatted text must be consistent with one another. If the pattern contains the same element (or variations of the same element) more than once, they must have the same value in each case. Elements which are not independent must not be contradictory — for example, the text `Mon 5 Feb 2025` superficially appears to match the pattern `Ddd D Mmm YYYY` but is contradictory, because 5 February 2025 was a Wednesday, not a Monday.

If a pattern is rejected, or a text-formatted datetime cannot be matched against the pattern for any of the reasons above, a `DOMAIN ERROR` is signalled and an explanatory message is included.

> ## Variant options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Variant Options
```

`⎕DT` supports the `Language` and `Dictionary` variant options, specified using the [variant operator `⍠`](../primitive-operators/variant.md). Both apply only when <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns.

> ### Language variant option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Variant Option: Language
```

The `Language` variant option specifies the language used for formatting and matching datetimes and defaults to `'en'` (English). A language is named by a two or five character value (for example `'en'` or `'en_GB'`). The option value can be:

- a single character vector, which applies to whichever of <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns; or
- a 2-element vector of two character vectors, which apply to <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> respectively (each is used only if the corresponding value is a pattern).

The setting can be explicitly overridden within a format pattern using the `__xx__` specifier described under [Language](#language) above.

> ### Dictionary variant option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Variant Option: Dictionary
```

> - a 2-element vector of two character vectors, which apply to <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> respectively (used when both are patterns).

Reviewer 2: This seem to imply that you must specify one language when there is one pattern, and two when there are two. This is not the case: if you specify one language with two patterns it applies to both, and if you specify two languages each is used only if there is a corresponding datetime to apply it to,

Author: Parenthesis changed to "(each is used only if the corresponding value is a pattern)".

## Language

Unless overridden, English is used for text substitutions. Different languages can be selected using the [**Language** variant option](#language-variant-option) and/or the use of language specifiers within the format pattern. In either case, the language is specified as either a two letter [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1) language code in lower case (for example, `en`) or as a five character language with an additional underscore and two character region in upper case (for example, `en_GB`). Within the format pattern, `__xx__` (where `xx` is the two or five character specifier) will switch the language of the subsequent generated or matched text. { #languages } shows the languages that are built into the interpreter.

Table: Built-in languages { #languages }
| ISO 639-1 | Language |
| --- | ---  |
| da | Danish |
| de | German |
| el | Greek |
| en | English |
| es | Spanish |
| fi | Finnish |
| fr | French |
| it | Italian |
| ja | Japanese |
| nb | Norwegian Bokmål |
| nl | Dutch |
| nn | Norwegian Nynorsk |
| pl | Polish |
| pt | Portuguese |
| ru | Russian |
| sv | Swedish |
| zh | Chinese |

## Predefined Patterns

> Any pattern can contain (in part or in whole) a named predefined pattern, which allows common date and time formats to be specified in abbreviated form. Predefined patterns can be specified on a per-language basis, allowing patterns to be tailored for the selected language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any pattern can contain (in part or in whole) a named predefined pattern, which allows common date and time formats to be specified in abbreviated form. Predefined patterns can be specified for each language, allowing patterns to be tailored for the selected language.
```

Reviewer 2: This changes the semantics, and the original was more accurate. "each" is problematic because (a) it suggests there is a specific set, and (b) it is ambiguous whether it must be for all _all_ of them.

Reviewer: How about "for individual languages"? Trying to avoid Latin terms in our documentation...

Reviewer 2: Yes, though "redefined patterns can be specified for individual languages, allowing patterns to be tailored for the selected language" feels a bit circular. Is it "per" you object to? I am not sure that would be considered Latin, even if it has been absorbed (like very many words) from Latin. By comparison, something like _ad infinitum_  - that you would italicise in that way if you were to use it in everyday prose - does still "feel" Latin.

Predefined patterns are included in a pattern using `%` delimiters. For example, `%ISO%` includes the named predefined pattern `ISO`.

> The following global predefined pattern is built in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following global predefined pattern is built into the interpreter:
```

Reviewer 2: There seems to be some reduncancy here; all it needs is "The following global pattern is predefined".

Reviewer: "Additional predefined patterns can be defined using the **Dictionary** variant option. Predefined patterns must not contain references to other predefined patterns."

There is a distinction between the one that is built in and others that the user can set – all are referred to as predefined, hence the need for distinction. Alternatively, the terminology that is being used could be amended throughout so that only the built-in one is called "predefined".

Reviewer 2: Ok, good point. I would argue that the original "The following global predefined pattern is built in" is sufficient - why qualify that with "into the interpreter"? Where else would it be?

> | Name | Substitutes as |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Predefined patterns built into the interpreter { #patterns }

| Name | Substitutes as |
```

| ---  | ---            |
| `ISO`  | `YYYY-MM-DD"T"hh:mm:ss` |

> This list can be expanded in future.

Reviewer: Remove this line

> Additional predefined patterns can be defined using the [Dictionary variant option](#dictionary-variant-option). Predefined patterns must not contain references to other predefined patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional predefined patterns can be defined using the [**Dictionary** variant option](#dictionary-variant-option). Predefined patterns must not contain references to other predefined patterns.
```

## Pattern-matching Rules

When <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> is a pattern, the corresponding character vectors in `Y` are matched against it and decoded into date-times. The following additional rules apply to the matching.

### Two-digit Years

> Two digit years (i.e. those corresponding to the formatting pattern elements `YY` and `WW`) are by default interpreted according to the same rules used for `⎕SM` and GUI edit fields, which are configurable using the `YY_WINDOW` configuration parameter and described with [its documentation](../../windows-installation-and-configuration-guide/configuration-parameters/yy-window/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two digit years (that is, those corresponding to the formatting pattern elements `YY` and `WW`) are, by default, interpreted according to the same rules used for `⎕SM` and GUI edit fields, which are configurable using the [`YY_WINDOW`](../../windows-installation-and-configuration-guide/configuration-parameters/yy-window/) configuration parameter.
```

### Ambiguities and Precision

> Formatting *to* a text-formatted datetime can be lossy — that is, the formatted text does not necessarily contain sufficient information to regenerate the original datetime. A pattern used to convert *from* a text-formatted datetime is not permitted to be ambiguous such that it would be possible to deduce multiple disjoint datetimes from text generated by it (for example, a pattern which contains a year and a day-of-month but no month, because there could be twelve disjoint dates for which the pattern would generate identical text). Such a pattern is rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formatting *to* a text-formatted datetime can be _lossy_, that is, the formatted text does not necessarily contain sufficient information to regenerate the original datetime. A pattern used to convert *from* a text-formatted datetime is not permitted to be ambiguous, that is, it must not be possible to deduce multiple disjoint datetimes from text generated by it (for example, a pattern which contains a year and a day-of-month but no month, because there could be twelve disjoint dates for which the pattern would generate identical text). Such a pattern is rejected.
```

> Patterns are, however, permitted to have limited precision (for example, a pattern which includes a date but no time elements, or a date plus only hour and minute time elements). Elements with lower significance than the least significant provided element can be elided and take a default value; this is analogous to the way `⎕DT` infers elements elided from timestamps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patterns are, however, permitted to have limited precision (for example, a pattern that includes a date but no time elements, or a date plus only hour and minute time elements). Elements with lower significance than the least significant provided element can be elided and take a default value; this is analogous to the way `⎕DT` infers elements elided from timestamps.
```

There are three principal means of specifying a date:

- year, month, day-of-month
- year, day-of-year
- ISO-year-of-week, ISO-week, day-of-week

> If a text-formatted datetime contains elements from more than one of these three principal formats then:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a text-formatted datetime contains elements from more than one of these three principal formats, then:
```

1. at least one of them must be unambiguous;
2. when more than one of them is unambiguous, the date is determined from the most precise one;
3. all element values must be consistent with the date so deduced.

Elided elements of a year, month, day-of-month date are all (including the year) implicitly `1`. Elided elements of times are all implicitly `0`.

> Some combinations of variable-length substitutions can make particular texts impossible to parse unambiguously. For example, the pattern `MD` (1 to 2 digits of month immediately followed by 1 to 2 digits of day-of-month) formats both 3 December and 23 January as `123`, so the text `123` cannot be matched against `MD` and an error is signalled. Whether such an ambiguity actually arises depends on the text being parsed: the text `1231` can only mean 31 December and is matched without error. Where two or more variable-length numeric or alphanumeric substitutions are adjacent, place literal text between them that cannot be confused with the substitution text to avoid such ambiguities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some combinations of variable-length substitutions can make particular texts impossible to parse unambiguously. For example, the pattern `MD` (1 to 2 digits of month immediately followed by 1 to 2 digits of day-of-month) formats both 3 December and 23 January as `123`, so the text `123` cannot be matched against `MD` and an error is signalled. Whether such an ambiguity actually arises depends on the text being parsed: the text `1231` can only mean 31 December and is matched without error. Where two or more variable-length numeric or alphanumeric substitutions are adjacent, you can place literal text between them that cannot be confused with the substitution text to avoid such ambiguities.
```

Reviewer 2: Addresssing the reader directly seems odd. Perhaps this should be "Text can be place between... "

Reviewer: "Where two or more variable-length numeric or alphanumeric substitutions are adjacent, ambiguities can be avoided by placing literal text between them that cannot be confused with the substitution text."

### Consistency

The formatted text is parsed and used to compute a datetime according to the given pattern, and must precisely match the text that would be produced if the resulting datetime were formatted using that same pattern. That is:

- The formatted text must contain valid substitution text where a format sequence appears in the pattern — for example, a full month name where `Mmmm` appears in the pattern.
- All other characters, including spaces and literal characters, must exactly match the pattern.
- All characters must be in the correct case.

> - The elements in the formatted text must be consistent with one another. If the pattern contains the same element (or variations of the same element) more than once, they must have the same value in each case. Elements which are not independent must not be contradictory — for example, the text `Mon 5 Feb 2025` superficially appears to match the pattern `Ddd D Mmm YYYY` but is contradictory, because 5 February 2025 was a Wednesday, not a Monday.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The elements in the formatted text must be consistent with one another. If the pattern contains the same element (or variations of the same element) more than once, they must have the same value in each case. Elements that are not independent must not be contradictory. For example, the text `Mon 5 Feb 2025` superficially appears to match the pattern `Ddd D Mmm YYYY` but is contradictory, because 5 February 2025 was a Wednesday, not a Monday.
```

If a pattern is rejected, or a text-formatted datetime cannot be matched against the pattern for any of the reasons above, a `DOMAIN ERROR` is signalled and an explanatory message is included.

## Variant Options

> `⎕DT` supports the `Language` and `Dictionary` variant options, specified using the [variant operator `⍠`](../primitive-operators/variant.md). Both apply only when <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`⎕DT` supports the **Language** and **Dictionary** variant options, specified using the _variant_ operator [`⍠`](../primitive-operators/variant.md). These only apply when <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns.
```

> `⎕DT` supports the `Language` and `Dictionary` variant options, specified using the [variant operator `⍠`](../primitive-operators/variant.md). Both apply only when <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns.

Reviewer: Please update all references to the variant options to be in bold text instead of APL font. Issue #887 will sort this out later to use APL font, but for now it ought to be consistent with the rest of the documentation set.

### Variant Option: Language

> The `Language` variant option specifies the language used for formatting and matching datetimes and defaults to `'en'` (English). A language is named by a two or five character value (for example `'en'` or `'en_GB'`). The option value can be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Language` variant option specifies the language used for formatting and matching datetimes and defaults to `'en'` (English). A language is named by a two or five character value (for example `'en'` or `'en_GB'`). The value can be one of the following:
```

> - a single character vector, which applies to whichever of <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns; or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a single character vector, which applies to whichever of <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and/or <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are patterns.
```

> - a 2-element vector of two character vectors, which apply to <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> respectively (each is used only if the corresponding value is a pattern).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A 2-element vector of two character vectors, which apply to <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> respectively (each is used only if the corresponding value is a pattern).
```

> The setting can be explicitly overridden within a format pattern using the `__xx__` specifier described under [Language](#language) above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setting can be explicitly overridden within a format pattern using the `__xx__` specifier described under [Language](#language).
```

### Variant Option: Dictionary

> The `Dictionary` variant option specifies a namespace which contains additional or replacement names for the months etc. and/or predefined patterns, for languages and language regions. If <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are both patterns, the dictionary is applied to both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Dictionary` variant option specifies a namespace that contains additional or replacement names for the months (and so on) and/or predefined patterns, for languages and language regions. If <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> are both patterns, the dictionary is applied to both.
```

> At the top level there can be zero or more sub-namespaces with two or five character names, according to the rules for language and language regions. Within each of these, month names etc. are defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top level there can be zero or more sub-namespaces with two or five character names, according to the rules for language and language regions. Within each of these, month names (and so on) are defined as shown in [](#names).
```

> | Named item | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Names { #names }

| Named item | Description |
```

| --- | ---  |
| `MonthNames` | A twelve-element vector of character vectors containing the full names corresponding to January to December, respectively. |
| `ShortMonthNames` | A twelve-element vector of character vectors containing the short names corresponding to Jan to Dec, respectively. |
| `WeekdayNames` | A seven-element vector of character vectors containing the full names corresponding to Monday to Sunday, respectively. |
| `ShortWeekdayNames` | A seven-element vector of character vectors containing the full names corresponding to Mon to Sun, respectively. |
| `MorningAfternoon` | A two-element vector of character vectors containing the names corresponding to AM and PM, respectively. |
| `Ordinals` | A character vector containing the one ordinal used for all numbers in the range 1 to 31, or a thirty one-element vector of character vectors containing the ordinals for 1 to 31, respectively. |

> Also at the top level of the dictionary namespace there can be a sub-namespace named `Patterns` and, within this, further sub-namespaces named `Global` and/or two or five character language names, containing definitions of predefined patterns. Predefined patterns are defined in the same way as the formatting pattern except that they must not contain references to other predefined patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top level of the dictionary namespace can contain a sub-namespace named `Patterns` and, within this, further sub-namespaces named `Global` and/or two or five character language names, containing definitions of predefined patterns. Predefined patterns are defined in the same way as the formatting pattern except that they must not contain references to other predefined patterns.
```

> If the namespace contains a definition which is supplied built into the interpreter, it replaces the built-in one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the namespace contains a definition that is supplied built into the interpreter, it replaces the built-in one.
```

> If a dictionary is incomplete (for example, is missing one of the expected named items, or one of the named items contains too few elements) an error is signalled only if the missing content would actually be needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a dictionary is incomplete (for example, is missing one of the expected named items, or one of the named items contains too few elements), an error is signalled if the missing content would be needed.
```

See the [Dictionary](#dictionary) example below.

## Examples

### Dictionary { .example }

> The following creates a dictionary defined by the namespace `dict`. See the [formatting examples](#formatting-datetimes) below for uses of this dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following creates a dictionary defined by the namespace `dict`. See [formatting examples](#formatting-datetimes) for uses of this dictionary.
```

      DateVerbose: '"the date is" DD _mm YYYY'
    )
    fr: ( DateVerbose: '"la date est le" DD mmm YYYY' )
    en_US: ( DateVerbose: '"the date is" Mmm DD, YYYY' )
  )
  en_US: (
    ShortMonthNames: (
      'Jan.' ⋄ 'Feb.' ⋄ 'Mar.' ⋄ 'Apr.' ⋄ 'May' ⋄ 'June'
      'July' ⋄ 'Aug.' ⋄ 'Sept.' ⋄ 'Oct.' ⋄ 'Nov.' ⋄ 'Dec.'
    )
  )
  cy: (
    MonthNames: (
      'Ionawr' ⋄ 'Chwefror' ⋄ 'Mawrth' ⋄ 'Ebrill' ⋄ 'Mai' ⋄ 'Mehefin'
      'Gorffennaf' ⋄ 'Awst' ⋄ 'Medi' ⋄ 'Hydref' ⋄ 'Tachwedd' ⋄ 'Rhagfyr'
    )
    ShortMonthNames: (
      'Ion' ⋄ 'Chw' ⋄ 'Maw' ⋄ 'Ebr' ⋄ 'Mai' ⋄ 'Meh'
      'Gor' ⋄ 'Awst' ⋄ 'Medi' ⋄ 'Hyd' ⋄ 'Tach' ⋄ 'Rhag'
    )
    WeekdayNames: (
      'Dydd Sul' ⋄ 'Dydd Llun' ⋄ 'Dydd Mawrth' ⋄ 'Dydd Mercher'
      'Dydd Iau' ⋄ 'Dydd Gwener' ⋄ 'Dydd Sadwrn'
    )
    ShortWeekdayNames: (
      'Sul' ⋄ 'Llun' ⋄ 'Maw' ⋄ 'Mer' ⋄ 'Iau' ⋄ 'Gwen' ⋄ 'Sad'
    )
    MorningAfternoon: ( 'yb' ⋄ 'yh' )
    Ordinals: (
      'af' ⋄ 'il' ⋄ 'ydd' ⋄ 'ydd' ⋄ 'ed' ⋄ 'ed' ⋄ 'fed' ⋄ 'fed' ⋄ 'fed'
      'fed' ⋄ 'eg' ⋄ 'fed' ⋄ 'eg' ⋄ 'eg' ⋄ 'fed' ⋄ 'eg' ⋄ 'eg' ⋄ 'fed'
      'eg' ⋄ 'fed' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain'
      'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain' ⋄ 'ain'
    )
  )
)
```

> Note the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example:
```

> 

Reviewer: The following bullets seem to have strange formatting with newline characters instead of being wrapped. It doesn't seem to impact the output but would be good to resolve.

> - In the example, the predefined pattern `ISOweek` is defined globally and is not redefined. It therefore has the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the predefined pattern `ISOweek` is defined globally and is not redefined. This means that it has the same
```

  value for all languages. Similarly, `DateCompact` has the same value for all languages, but although the definition is
  global, it contains the pattern `MMM` and this will be substituted with the month name in the selected language.
- The predefined patterns `DateVerbose` is defined globally, and redefined for languages `fr` and `en_US`. The global
  definition will be used when any language other than `fr` and `en_US` is selected. If there was no global definition
  it would only be defined for `fr`, all regional variations of `fr`, and `en_US`.

> - There is no explicit definition of patterns or names for language region `en_GB`. If this language is selected the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There is no explicit definition of patterns or names for language region `en_GB`. If this language is selected, the
```

  definitions for `en` will be used.

> - There is an explicit definition for `ShortMonthNames` for language region `en_US`. If this language is selected the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There is an explicit definition for `ShortMonthNames` for language region `en_US`. If this language is selected, the
```

The resolutions of system clocks vary by platform.

## Formatting Patterns

Either or both of <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> and <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code> can be a character vector containing a *pattern* which describes how a datetime is, or is to be, formatted as text.

> When used as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code>, the pattern controls how each element of `Y` is formatted into a character vector in `R`. When used as <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code>, the same pattern describes the text supplied in `Y` and controls how it is matched and decoded into the representation given by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (see [Pattern matching rules](#pattern-matching-rules)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used as <code>X<sub>R</sub></code>, the pattern controls how each element of `Y` is formatted into a character vector in `R`. When used as <code>X<sub>Y</sub></code>, the same pattern describes the text supplied in `Y` and controls how it is matched and decoded into the representation given by <code>X<sub>R</sub></code> (see [Pattern-matching Rules](#pattern-matching-rules)).
```

The formatting pattern allows a datetime to be converted to a user-configurable plain-text format. When a datetime is formatted, elements in the result are copies of the format pattern with format sequences replaced by the elements they represent.

The format sequences are intended to be visually reminiscent of the generated text. They use alphabetic characters easily associated with the substitution (for example `D`, `M`, and `Y` for Day, Month, and Year respectively) repeated one or more times to indicate format. Some sequences allow the first character to be replaced by a `_`, or the casing to be altered.

> | Format letter | Length | Meaning | Variations | Example |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table: Formatting sequences { #formatseq }

| Format letter | Length | Meaning | Variations | Example |
```

| `MorningAfternoon` | A two-element vector of character vectors containing the names corresponding to AM and PM, respectively. |
| `Ordinals` | A character vector containing the one ordinal used for all numbers in the range 1 to 31, or a thirty one-element vector of character vectors containing the ordinals for 1 to 31, respectively. |

The top level of the dictionary namespace can contain a sub-namespace named `Patterns` and, within this, further sub-namespaces named `Global` and/or two or five character language names, containing definitions of predefined patterns. Predefined patterns are defined in the same way as the formatting pattern except that they must not contain references to other predefined patterns.

If the namespace contains a definition that is supplied built into the interpreter, it replaces the built-in one.

If a dictionary is incomplete (for example, is missing one of the expected named items, or one of the named items contains too few elements), an error is signalled if the missing content would be needed.

See the [Dictionary example](#dictionary).

## Examples

> ### Dictionary { .example }

Reviewer: Let's discuss the format for example headings (incl cross-references).

43508
```

### Languages and dictionaries { .example }
```apl
      '__da__Dddd, DDoo mmmm YYYY; hh:mm:ss' ⎕DT dt
┌──────────────────────────────────┐
│Onsdag, 13. februar 2019; 10:16:56│
└──────────────────────────────────┘
      fmt←'Dddd, DDoo mmmm YYYY; hh:mm:ss'
      fmt(⎕DT⍠'Language' 'da') dt
┌──────────────────────────────────┐
│Onsdag, 13. februar 2019; 10:16:56│
└──────────────────────────────────┘
      '%DateVerbose%'(⎕DT⍠('Dictionary' dict)('Language' 'en_US')) dt
┌─────────────────────────┐
│the date is Feb. 13, 2019│
└─────────────────────────┘
      '__cy__Dddd, DDoo mmmm YYYY; hh:mm:ss'(⎕DT⍠'Dictionary' dict) dt
┌──────────────────────────────────────────┐
│Dydd Mercher, 13eg chwefror 2019; 10:16:56│
└──────────────────────────────────────────┘
      '__cy__%DateVerbose%'(⎕DT⍠'Dictionary' dict) dt
┌───────────────────────┐
│the date is 13 Chw 2019│
└───────────────────────┘
```

### Validation { .example }
```apl
      0 ⎕DT ⎕TS (2020 13 1) 'J' 'DT' #
1 0 1 0 0

      ¯30 0 ⎕DT⊂32000 15 10 0
1

      'DD/MM/YYYY' 0 ⎕DT '13/02/2019' '31/02/2019'
1 0

      'YYYY-MM-DD' 0 ⎕DT '1900-02-29' '2000-02-29'
0 1
```

[^1]: In the Proleptic Gregorian Calendar.

> [^2]: No date-time can represent a date earlier than ¯4713-01-01 00:00.

Reviewer: Remove the multiple line breaks after footnote 2 that result in a blank line in the rendered version.

Author: Those are hidden back-references.
